so okay so you you started to get
popular in the mid 90s you said and when
did you make the
transition so locally i was becoming
locally in toronto and uh so people
would know who i was
it just and it was strictly mostly in
the black community at that time
and and then i started getting interest
from indian people because they kind of
uh shut me out at the beginning they
didn't they you know they weren't i'm
the first guy so they're going to be
very
there was a lot of trepidation you know
the word i said it wrong but you know
what i'm saying
uh they they they were hesitant to
accept i think it's trepination
what you know whatever it is it's oh no
that's when you get a hole
packed in your goal trepidation
yeah it's trepidation okay good idea
right good um
so they were hesitant so uh
they started like edging towards me like
hmm let's have him host
this indian culture show and i would do
it and then they would get offended
because i wasn't i wasn't like the other
indian kids i wasn't the guy who's going
to be like
hello i didn't grow up like that so
don't expect me to all of a sudden know
what your
what what what your customs are in india
are not the same as what my family's
customs were in india so
india being such a big country with so
many different types of people there's
not one uniform thing
so they're there they started to this i
would either kill or bomb
there was no middle ground for it and
uh and then i started touring around i
started going to england a lot and from
england is where i started
seeing the world i started going to
england in 95
and from england you would get gigs i'd
be like hey russell do you want to go to
northern ireland this week and i'm like
hell yeah
so i'd go belfast and dairy and this is
at the time when
the ira were bombing uh garbage cans in
london and stuff
they were still very much big with what
they were doing
and then you would get gigs and be like
hey do you want to go to belgium do you
want to go to denmark and i was like
yeah yeah yeah
and i started going all around the world
and i started really digging it
and that's when i started opening my
eyes to so many different ways and
that's why i think
very early in my career i was exposed to
so many different countries so it wasn't
like being in toronto and meeting
different cultures
i was going to these places and seeing
it firsthand
so late 90s
you started to get mass audiences uh
no i started gaining audience popularity
when they would start coming out
specifically for me at clubs let's say
around 2004
after my 2003 special had aired
and uh it's funny because yuck yucks
where i was working
they used to this is how scummy this
business is
and this is no slight against them i get
it you're running a business but come on
don't make me feel like i'm getting
something when i'm not
they rely on the pay scale for a
headliner was 100
150 or 200 a show so it was a double a
or triple a i was a triple
a um so i was getting 200 a show
and uh they had booked me in the
mississauga yuck yucks
and they called me into the office and
said russell here's we're going to do
something for you that we've never done
before
we're going to give you your 200 a show
um but because you're selling so well
we're gonna give you an extra dollar per
paid customer
and i said wow that's really cool they
were like is that cool i go that's
fantastic sure great
and the ticket price was 17 dollars well
i get to the club didn't they raise the
price to twenty dollars
one they got two
yeah well then you were rolling in money
at that point
i think i pulled out eight grand for the
weekend which at the time was a lot of
money
yeah like nobody's pulled this much out
of yuck yucks
when did you start okay two questions
one when did you start getting
recognized randomly on the street and
was that transition difficult
from not being recognized because i'm
sure after you're special
i think i watched your special i think
everybody i knew watched your special
so there must have been a transition
from being recognized
everywhere from not being recognized
well i see the thing is
i was always like out and about and uh
i don't want to say i was popular but i
would go out a lot
and i would and i was also djing at the
time back then so i if i wasn't doing
comedy i was djing at a club or
something so i always knew like the club
scene and that's really the only place
you could really become popular
and there was no social media back then
so either you were inside or you were
outside so
i knew the bouncers the owners the and i
didn't drink at the time so they never
they never had to worry about me coming
to their club and getting drunk and
starting problems i was i was a sober
guy until i was about 31
and uh so i always knew how to get into
clubs free so
it kind of felt like i was already
popular because i'd walk there'd be a
line i'd walk up like hey russell come
on in who's with you and um
and it was kind of always a cool feeling
so people saw that and then would talk
to you in the club hey man that's all
you're talking about you know the
bouncer but you know and then
and you become friends with all these
different people so when it started
happening to him it just started
happening to me more and more frequently
is what happened
so it never really came out of nowhere
just built and i was honest and i'm one
of those guys who loves people
so when people come and talk to me my
security guys
always get annoyed because i stand and
talk to a person i don't i don't go
thank you so much
keep it moving i'm like hey what do you
do what's your name i genuinely want to
know about the person
if you're being nice enough to come and
say hi to me the least i could do is be
nice enough to have a conversation
yeah well it's so it's such an
unbelievable
stroke of good fortune to have
perfect strangers like you yeah that's
what i say
oh man it could be a lot worse oh yeah
you know yeah and i'm not the guy you
want to come up with an attitude with
because i'm like oh we're going to have
a problem here pal
and so if you go out now
just for a random stroll down the street
how
likely are you to be recognized in uh
california
it well well you got to tell us about
different places in los angeles there's
celebrities everywhere
all the time so that becomes who's the
bigger celebrity in the room at that
point
and i geek out when i see celebs
sometimes like holy [__] that's blah
blah blah
yeah i was in montreal i was in montreal
just about 86 i guess something like
that when i just started graduate school
so i just come from northern alberta
alberta and uh i was walking across
sherbrooke street just south of mcgill
university and pier trudeau
walked across the crosswalk and we were
the only two people on the street and i
went
holy [__] it's trudeau was he still
prime minister then
no no he was he he wasn't at that point
but i was
you know i know the star struck feeling
you know and that just
erupted out of me in a fit of stupidity
and i've always been you know
mortified as a consequence of it i've
done i've said the dumbest things to
people i
you know the worst thing is when you get
in this business and you have nobody
you literally you're the first guy in
your entire family bloodline to have
ever and
jumped in this business and then you're
the first indian kid you you got all
these things in your head and
you don't understand how this industry
works if you've
never been around it so i look at other
people and how they navigate like well
that's because that guy's dad was blah
blah blah
they know how to move nice and spluidly
i stop and look at everything because
i'm still
stunned by the situations i'm in and i
remember years ago
it's been 25 years ago in montreal just
for laughs somebody said hey
that's the girl that books david
letterman
um and she was a very unattractive woman
let me just say that a very unattractive
woman like
anyway so they said you should go be
nice to her
so you know maybe she puts you on
letterman and i'm like okay and i'm only
96 i'm only been in the business seven
years i'm you have no business
talking to people unless if you've been
in the business less than 10 years you
have no business doing anything
that should involve that as far as i'm
concerned
so we're at this midnight party and
everyone's
dancing there's a free buffet and
everything
and uh i see her at the buffet
and i happen to be at the buffet and i i
know who she is but i'm trying to play
like i don't
so i i don't know why i thought this
would be funny or clever or
witty it was none of the above i just
went
wow you must be important she goes why
do you say that i said because all the
pretty girls are out there acting like
idiots
[Laughter]
uh-huh so did you get booked on
letterman never or did you get
macaroni dump down your shirt she goes
what and i go
uh i just walked away i just walked away
what am i gonna
i'm not gonna defend that
so yes i've stuck my foot in my mouth
many times
well you'd have to if you're a comedian
yeah i mean that's i think part of the
process
yeah well you're not going to find out
what's funny until you know a bunch of
things that aren't funny and you flub up
a lot i tell people that you're not
going to appreciate success until you've
had failure
and how do you are you good at coping
with failure like i've been fortunate
you know because i haven't
bombed in front of a large audience and
that might be because
people are willing to give me more
credit than i deserve because they're
you know they're already viewers of mine
and so on but
like i don't i don't know if i could
hack that
i'm not resilient in that way and
i i you said that when you were first
starting that you bombed
in in many places listen with comedy
you're never above bombing it doesn't
matter who you
are chappelle can go out and have a bad
night i mean anybody that's the
i think that's what keeps us interested
in our job is that
what's tonight going to be like we don't
people go you're going to kill it i go
we don't know that
yeah i want to kill it i don't know that
it will happen it's up to the audience
what if i get some sort of resistance
from them
last night there was some guy drunk and
yelling out
and and i was getting irritated by it
and you know
i think the older i get the more
short-tempered i'm getting with
with stupidity you know i'm like shut
the [__] up dude
you know i'm like hey what's your name
but last night i was like enough enough
kid enough
and uh so you know that kind of threw
the vibe of the show right off
because they're like oh is he funny
tonight or is he angry what's this guy's
problem you know
right right well
i i have an affinity for comedians i
think partly because
i hung around with a group of people
when i lived in northern alberta
and all we ever did was try to make each
other laugh and
the the currency of our social group was
laughter if you could tell a good joke
or say something funny then
you scored a point and and it was great
i loved it i
and maybe it was part of the culture too
more working-class culture
but what what i did on my lecture tour i
think
was very similar to what stand-up
comedians do
i even attempted now and then to be
funny um
which i can be now and then but i
also had that sense of performing
without a safety net
you know it was never obvious i think to
the audience and it certainly wasn't
obvious to me whether or not i was going
to have a successful talk because i
didn't know beforehand right and i think
that's something that's so fun about or
so it's so dramatically exciting about
live shows like comedy shows is
there is the ever lurking threat of
disaster and for the comedian it's like
well you're not funny and so then you're
up there
trying to be funny and you're not funny
and it's painful for the audience and
it's painful for you and
everyone knows that can happen and part
of the
the thrill is is to be part of that and
watch
watch the potential train wreck unfold
and then everyone's so happy if you are
funny
yeah i mean there's a lot of there's a
lot of variables too with comedy i
remember i was doing this
um show about 15 14 15 years ago was in
dc and uh bono was there from you too
michael mcdonald was going to perform
and i'm sitting at michael mcdonald's
table with him
and padma lakshmi is there and uh
ashley judd and it was like this aids
um awareness benefit dinner thing and i
was to perform
and for summer the show started today
and for some reason they decide they
wanted to put me on first but people are
still coming in and people are talking
to each other nobody wants to hear a
comedian
first and so i'm up there doing my act
and just nobody's paying attention
nobody like literally nobody and i could
feel my heart beating fast i'm like
mother
i'm getting so and i'm sw sweating and
i'm getting
i'm really stressing out because there's
all these celebrities in this room and
i'm like
this is my chance to you know make a
splash here
and nobody's paying attention and not a
flop sweat splash
oh yeah well i could have i did make a
splash in my armpits
and uh so i got so mad at them i go
well uh you guys have been horrible i
hope you all got aids good night